Add elevenlabs integration docs (#32322)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/elevenlabs.markdown

---
title: ElevenLabs text-to-speech
description: Instructions on how to setup ElevenLabs text-to-speech with Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Text-to-speech

> ha_release: 2024.4.3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ha_release: 2024.8
```

ha_iot_class: Cloud Push
ha_domain: elevenlabs
ha_platforms:
  - tts
ha_config_flow: true
ha_integration_type: integration
---

> The `elevenlabs` text-to-speech integration adds support for [ElevenLabs](https://elevenlabs.io/) as text-to-speech to read a text with natural sounding voices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **ElevenLabs** text-to-speech {% term integrations %} adds support for [ElevenLabs](https://elevenlabs.io/) as text-to-speech to read a text with natural sounding voices.
```

> The **ElevenLabs** text-to-speech {% term integrations %} adds support for [ElevenLabs](https://elevenlabs.io/) as text-to-speech to read a text with natural sounding voices.

Reviewer 2: Are there any prerequisites? Do I need to have something before I can add the integration? an ElevenLabs account, credentials, API key?

Author: Added a draft for prerequisites

> The `elevenlabstts` text-to-speech platform uses the official [ElevenLabs SDK](https://github.com/elevenlabs/elevenlabs-python) to read a text with natural sounding voices.

Reviewer: It's an integration not a platform

> The `elevenlabstts` text-to-speech platform uses the official [ElevenLabs SDK](https://github.com/elevenlabs/elevenlabs-python) to read a text with natural sounding voices.

Reviewer: Not sure why it's relevant it's using the official SDK

Author: Should I just remove the whole line then?
Edit: Done

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

> Check the [complete list of supported languages](https://elevenlabs.io/languages) for an overview which languages can be used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For an overview of which languages can be used, check the [complete list of supported languages](https://elevenlabs.io/languages).
```

> Check your VoiceLab voices for a description on which voices are available for use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For a description of which voices are available for use, check your VoiceLab voices.
```

> Check the [models documentation](https://elevenlabs.io/docs/speech-synthesis/models) for allowed models and their benefits.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To see the available models and their benefits, check the [models documentation](https://elevenlabs.io/docs/speech-synthesis/models).
```

> ## Service speak

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Action speak
```
In this release, service is renamed to action.

> The `tts.speak` service is the modern way to use TTS. Add the `speak` action, select the entity for your ElevenLabs TTS (it's named ElevenLabs), select the media player entity or group to send the TTS audio to, and enter the message to speak.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `tts.speak` action is the modern way to use TTS. Add the `speak` action, select the entity for your ElevenLabs TTS (it's named ElevenLabs), select the media player entity or group to send the TTS audio to, and enter the message to speak.
```

> The `tts.speak` service is the modern way to use TTS. Add the `speak` action, select the entity for your ElevenLabs TTS (it's named for the model and voice you created it with), select the media player entity or group to send the TTS audio to, and enter the message to speak.

Reviewer: We have a new way of naming services

Author: The DeviceInfo we added? Otherwise I would be glad if you could tell me what exactly you are referring to.

For more options about `speak`, see the Speak section on the main [TTS](/integrations/tts/#service-speak) building block page.

In YAML, your action will look like this:

```yaml

> service: tts.speak

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
action: tts.speak
```

---
title: ElevenLabs text-to-speech
description: Instructions on how to setup ElevenLabs text-to-speech with Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Text-to-speech
ha_release: 2024.8
ha_iot_class: Cloud Push
ha_domain: elevenlabs
ha_platforms:
  - tts
ha_config_flow: true
ha_integration_type: integration
---

The **ElevenLabs** text-to-speech {% term integrations %} adds support for [ElevenLabs](https://elevenlabs.io/) as text-to-speech to read a text with natural sounding voices.

> An ElevenLabs account is required to use this integration - a free one suffices for basic usage. For custom voices or more quota, subscriptions are required. Additionally, you need your API key from the ElevenLabs website. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites

- You need an ElevenLabs account to use this integration. A free account suffices for basic usage. 
- For custom voices or more quota you need a subscription.
- You need your API key from the ElevenLabs website. 
```

---
title: ElevenLabs text-to-speech
description: Instructions on how to setup ElevenLabs text-to-speech with Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Text-to-speech
ha_release: 2024.8
ha_iot_class: Cloud Push
ha_domain: elevenlabs
ha_platforms:
  - tts
ha_config_flow: true
ha_integration_type: integration
---

The **ElevenLabs** text-to-speech {% term integrations %} adds support for [ElevenLabs](https://elevenlabs.io/) as text-to-speech to read a text with natural sounding voices.
## Prerequisites

- You need an ElevenLabs account to use this integration. A free account suffices for basic usage. 
- For custom voices or more quota you need a subscription.
- You need your API key from the ElevenLabs website. 

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

For an overview of which languages can be used, check the [complete list of supported languages](https://elevenlabs.io/languages).

For a description of which voices are available for use, check your VoiceLab voices.

To see the available models and their benefits, check the [models documentation](https://elevenlabs.io/docs/speech-synthesis/models).

## Action speak

> The `tts.speak` action is the modern way to use TTS. Add the `speak` action, select the entity for your ElevenLabs TTS (it's named ElevenLabs), select the media player entity or group to send the TTS audio to, and enter the message to speak.

Reviewer: The entity isn't always called eleven labs right?

Author: We're naming it based on the config entry title and the config entry title is ElevenLabs
That should result in the Entity's name being ElevenLabs, shouldn't it?

I agree that we can discuss this though as a more meaningful name would be nice, but I'd move that into a separate discussion in core

Reviewer: Should we add `by default`?

Author: ```suggestion
The `tts.speak` action is the modern way to use TTS. Add the `speak` action, select the entity for your ElevenLabs TTS (it's named ElevenLabs by default), select the media player entity or group to send the TTS audio to, and enter the message to speak.
```
